https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-6817 Search query API (#5942)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: apis/searchquery.json.adoc

[#search-query-api]
= Search query API

[[_rhacm-docs_apis_policy_jsonoverview]]
== Overview

> This documentation describes how to expose the search API with a route and how to use the API to resolve search queries. The API is a GraphQL endpoint. You can use any client like curl or Postman. GraphQL Playground is included with the search API deployment for development purposes.

Author: Removed the statement because the info was listed as optional https://github.com/stolostron/search-v2-operator/wiki/Search-Query-API

It also adds complexity to the doc. Since it is not required to access the search api, the instructions to enable Playground is not necessary. 

```suggestion
This documentation describes how to expose the search API with a route and how to use the API to resolve search queries. The API is a GraphQL endpoint. You can use any client like curl or Postman.
```

=== Version information
[%hardbreaks]
__Version__ : 2.9.0

> //schema vs scheme
> //should this be labeled URI schema and list GraphQL as the BasePath? 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> === URI scheme

Author: Need help from development to confirm this

[%hardbreaks]

> __BasePath__ : /kubernetes/apis

Author: Suggestion from @jlpadilla during live review
```suggestion
__BasePath__ : /searchapi/graphql
```

__Schemes__ : HTTPS

[[_search_query_api_access]]
=== Configure API access

The search operator must be installed on your managed cluster, and you must have access to the search API external to your cluster. Create a route to access the Search API external from your cluster with the following command:

[source,bash]
----
oc create route passthrough search-api --service=search-search-api -n open-cluster-management
----

==== Parameters

[options="header", cols=".^2a,.^3a,.^9a,.^4a"]
|===
|Type|Name|Description|Schema
|**Header**|**COOKIE** +
__required__|Authorization: Bearer {ACCESS_TOKEN} ; ACCESS_TOKEN is the user access token.|string
|**Path**|**cluster_name** +
__required__|Name of the cluster that you want to delete.|string
|===

== Schema design

> [source,graphql]

Author: not sure about the graphql source. Might have to change back to json

Author: Confirmed during live meeting

----
type SearchResult {
count: Int
items: [Map]
related: [SearchRelatedResult]
}
 
type SearchRelatedResult {
kind: String!
count: Int
items: [Map]
}
----

=== Schema example

[source,json]
----
{
  "query": "type SearchResult {count: Intitems: [Map]related: [SearchRelatedResult]} type SearchRelatedResult {kind: String!count: Intitems: [Map]}",
  "variables": {
    "input": [
      {
        "keywords": [],
        "filters": [
          {
            "property": "kind",
            "values": [
              "Deployment"
            ]
          }
        ],
        "limit": 10
      }
    ]
  }
}
----

== Generic schema 

----
type Query { ... }
----

[source,json]
----
type Query {
  search(input: [SearchInput]): [SearchResult]
  searchComplete(property: String!, query: SearchInput, limit: Int): [String]
  searchSchema: Map
  messages: [Message]
}
----

> == Supported queries

Author: It would be helpful to describe what the json example is then show the example. Need help from development

[#search-query-api]
= Search query API

> This API is not displayed through the {ocp} API Explorer. Continue reading to understand the Search query API capabilities.  

Reviewer: How about adding this?
> This is not a Kubernetes API, therefore is not displayed through the ...

[[_rhacm-docs_apis_policy_jsonoverview]]
== Overview

This documentation describes how to expose the search API with a route and how to use the API to resolve search queries. The API is a GraphQL endpoint. You can use any client like curl or Postman.

=== Version information
[%hardbreaks]
_Version_ : 2.9.0

=== URI scheme
[%hardbreaks]
_BasePath_ : /searchapi/graphql
_Schemes_ : HTTPS

[[_search_query_api_access]]
=== Configure API access

> The search operator must be installed on your hub cluster, and you must have access to the search API external to your cluster. Create a route to access the Search API external from your cluster with the following command:

Reviewer: I'd remove the first sentence because search is installed by default with RHACM, so it could be confusing in the context of this doc.

> The search operator must be installed on your managed cluster, and you must have access to the search API external to your cluster. Create a route to access the Search API external from your cluster with the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The search operator must be installed on your hub cluster, and you must have access to the search API external to your cluster. Create a route to access the Search API external from your cluster with the following command:
```

[source,bash]
----
oc create route passthrough search-api --service=search-search-api -n open-cluster-management
----

==== Parameters

[options="header", cols=".^2a,.^3a,.^9a,.^4a"]
|===
|Type|Name|Description|Schema
|**Header**|**COOKIE** +
__required__|Authorization: Bearer {ACCESS_TOKEN} ; ACCESS_TOKEN is the user access token.|string
|**Path**|**cluster_name** +
__required__|Name of the cluster that you want to delete.|string
|===

== Schema design

[source,graphql]
----
input SearchFilter {
  property: String!
  values: [String]!
}
input SearchInput {
  keywords: [String]
  filters: [SearchFilter]
  limit: Int
  relatedKinds: [String]
}
type SearchResult {
count: Int
items: [Map]
related: [SearchRelatedResult]
}
type SearchRelatedResult {
kind: String!
count: Int
items: [Map]
}
----

=== Description table of query inputs

> //are there any parameters that are required? 

Reviewer: Yes, in the schema above, the `!` indicates that the field is required.

| Integer
|===

=== Schema example

[source,json]
----
{
  "query": "type SearchResult {count: Intitems: [Map]related: [SearchRelatedResult]} type SearchRelatedResult {kind: String!count: Intitems: [Map]}",
  "variables": {
    "input": [
      {
        "keywords": [],
        "filters": [
          {
            "property": "kind",
            "values": [
              "Deployment"
            ]
          }
        ],
        "limit": 10
      }
    ]
  }
}
----

== Generic schema 

[source,graphql]
----
type Query {
  search(input: [SearchInput]): [SearchResult]
  searchComplete(property: String!, query: SearchInput, limit: Int): [String]
  searchSchema: Map
  messages: [Message]
}
----

== Supported queries

Continue reading to see the query types that are supported in JSON format.

=== Search for deployments

Query:

[source,graphql]
----
query mySearch($input: [SearchInput]) {
    searchResult: search(input: $input) {
    		items
        }
}
----

Variables:

[source,graphql]
----
{"input":[
    {
        "keywords":[],
        "filters":[
            {"property":"kind","values":["Deployment"]}],
        "limit":10
    }
]}
----

> === Search for pods

Reviewer: This example should be formatted the same as above.

Reviewer: This example is too similar to the previous. Maybe we can show something a little more complex, what do you think? I can provide the complex example.

Author: @jlpadilla sure thing, if you think that is helpful

Author: @jlpadilla are you still interested with adding a complex example?

Reviewer: yes, but let's not hold this PR.

[#search-query-api]
= Search query API

> This is not a Kubernetes API, therefore is not displayed through the {ocp} API Explorer. Continue reading to understand the Search query API capabilities.  

Reviewer 3: I think it might read better to say something like:

The Search query API is not a Kubernetes API. Therefore, the query is not displayed through the {ocp} API Explorer. Continue reading...

Basically, `this` is a little vague for the very first subject for this doc. So I'm thinking maybe we could start off a littl more specific. What do you think?

> This is not a Kubernetes API, therefore is not displayed through the {ocp} API Explorer. Continue reading to understand the Search query API capabilities.  

Author: ```suggestion
The search query API is not a Kubernetes API, therefore is not displayed through the {ocp} API Explorer. Continue reading to understand the search query API capabilities.  
```

[[_rhacm-docs_apis_policy_jsonoverview]]
== Overview

> This documentation describes how to expose the search API with a route and how to use the API to resolve search queries. The API is a GraphQL endpoint. You can use any client like curl or Postman.

Reviewer 3: Since IBM SG discourages self referential language, and we want to be user focused whenever we can, what do you think about simplifying this first sentence? Something like:

You can expose the search API with a route and use the API to resolve search queries. The API is a GraphQL endpoint. You can use any client like curl or Postman. 

Also, earlier you say, `Search query API` here you simply say `search API` is this Overview describing the Search query API or search API (like, are they two different APIs?) If they're the same API, then I'd say to write `Search query API` here.

> This documentation describes how to expose the search API with a route and how to use the API to resolve search queries. The API is a GraphQL endpoint. You can use any client like curl or Postman.

Author: ```suggestion
You can expose the search query API with a route and use the API to resolve search queries. The API is a GraphQL endpoint. You can use any client like curl or Postman.
```

=== Version information
[%hardbreaks]
_Version_ : 2.9.0

=== URI scheme
[%hardbreaks]
_BasePath_ : /searchapi/graphql
_Schemes_ : HTTPS

[[_search_query_api_access]]
=== Configure API access

Create a route to access the Search API external from your cluster with the following command:

[source,bash]
----
oc create route passthrough search-api --service=search-search-api -n open-cluster-management

> ----

Reviewer: I'd like to add a note or warning for the user about this command.

We show this command for simplicity, but the route that it creates won't be secured with TLS. The user needs to provide valid configuration to properly secure this route. Besides security, there are other options that users may want to consider for their specific environments.
Should we reference the [OCP Route documentation](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.14/networking/routes/route-configuration.html)?

Author: We usually do not list notes in the API documentation. Seeing that this is a different API than others that we have, I am fine with adding your suggested note. Related to the OCP route documentation, I recommend that we direct users to the customer portal : https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/4.14/html-single/networking/index#route-configuration

Author: Updated

> ----

Author: ```suggestion
----

*Important:* You must configure your route to secure your environment. See link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/4.14/html-single/networking/index#route-configuration[Route configuration] in the {ocp-short} documentation for more details.
```

==== Parameters

[options="header", cols=".^2a,.^3a,.^9a,.^4a"]
|===
|Type|Name|Description|Schema
|**Header**|**COOKIE** +
__required__|Authorization: Bearer {ACCESS_TOKEN} ; ACCESS_TOKEN is the user access token.|string
|**Path**|**cluster_name** +
__required__|Name of the cluster that you want to delete.|string
|===

== Schema design

[source,graphql]

> ----

Reviewer: I'd like to avoid duplicating the schema, if possible. [This article describes some alternatives.](https://hackernoon.com/documenting-graphql-apis#:~:text=Using%20Introspection%20to%20Explore%20GraphQL)

I wonder if we could guide the users to use "Instrospection" to explore the GraphQL schema. There are tools like Postman which will format the schema nicely for users. Here's our schema from Postman.
<img width="1344" alt="image" src="https://github.com/stolostron/rhacm-docs/assets/4671325/f0e49fdc-99bc-4b84-95ef-adaef1bc024a">

Author: It is not clear how the schema is a duplicate. Is it because there is a Schema example ?

Reviewer: The schema is defined in [this file](https://github.com/stolostron/search-v2-api/blob/main/graph/schema.graphqls) and we copied the input descriptions from there.

My worry is that when you make [these awesome updates](https://github.com/stolostron/rhacm-docs/pull/5942/files#r1455960400) from @jc-berger the 2 files will get out of sync.

I'll sync the edits once you merge, but we will likely forget to sync the files for future updates.

Author: From my perspective, the description don't have to match exactly. As long as our edits do not change the meaning or alter the accuracy of the statement. I understand why it would be helpful to stay in-sync tho! Thanks for expressing your concerns

input SearchFilter {
  property: String!
  values: [String]!
}
input SearchInput {
  keywords: [String]
  filters: [SearchFilter]
  limit: Int
  relatedKinds: [String]
}
type SearchResult {
count: Int
items: [Map]
related: [SearchRelatedResult]
}
type SearchRelatedResult {
kind: String!
count: Int
items: [Map]
}
----

Parameters with `!` indicates that the field is required.

=== Description table of query inputs
|===
|Type|Description|Property

> | SearchFilter

Reviewer 3: Can we be consistent with the language of each table description? For example:

Search Filter: Define a key and value to filer results. When you provide...

SearchInput: Enter key words to receive a list of resources. When you provide...

limit (shouldn't this be capitalized the preceding table types, like SearchInput and SearchFilter?): Determine a max number of results returned after you tenter the query.

If we don't want each description to be user focused, we could follow a format like this:

Search Filter: Defines  a key and value to filer results. When you provide...

SearchInput: Enters key words to receive a list of resources. When you provide...

limit: Determines a max number of results returned after you tenter the query.

Author: Thanks for pointing this out. Based on the syntax, limit is not required to be uppercase. The types prior to are camel-case. @jlpadilla will you confirm ?

Reviewer: Correct, these names follow the [GraphQL naming convention](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/technotes/TN0002-schema-naming-conventions/#casing).

- `limit` is a field so it's camelCase.
- `SearchFilter and SearchInput` are types, so they are PascalCase.

| Defines a key and value to filter results. When you provide many values for a property, the API interpret the values as an "OR" operation. When you provide many filters, results match all filters and the API interprets as an "AND" operation.
| string

| SearchInput
| Enter key words to receive a list of resources. When you provide many keywords, the API interprets it as an "AND" operation. 
| String

| limit

> | Max number of results returned after you enter the query. The default value is `10,000`. A value of `-1` means that the limit is removed.

Author: ```suggestion
| Determine the maximum number of results returned after you enter the query. The default value is `10,000`. A value of `-1` means that the limit is removed.
```

=== Version information
[%hardbreaks]
_Version_ : 2.9.0

=== URI scheme
[%hardbreaks]
_BasePath_ : /searchapi/graphql
_Schemes_ : HTTPS

[[_search_query_api_access]]
=== Configure API access

Create a route to access the Search API external from your cluster with the following command:

[source,bash]
----
oc create route passthrough search-api --service=search-search-api -n open-cluster-management
----

==== Parameters

[options="header", cols=".^2a,.^3a,.^9a,.^4a"]
|===
|Type|Name|Description|Schema
|**Header**|**COOKIE** +
__required__|Authorization: Bearer {ACCESS_TOKEN} ; ACCESS_TOKEN is the user access token.|string
|**Path**|**cluster_name** +
__required__|Name of the cluster that you want to delete.|string
|===

== Schema design

[source,graphql]
----
input SearchFilter {
  property: String!
  values: [String]!
}
input SearchInput {
  keywords: [String]
  filters: [SearchFilter]
  limit: Int
  relatedKinds: [String]
}
type SearchResult {
count: Int
items: [Map]
related: [SearchRelatedResult]
}
type SearchRelatedResult {
kind: String!
count: Int
items: [Map]
}
----

Parameters with `!` indicates that the field is required.

=== Description table of query inputs

> //are there any parameters that are required? 

Author: ```suggestion

```

[#search-query-api]
= Search query API

The search query API is not a Kubernetes API, therefore is not displayed through the {ocp} API Explorer. Continue reading to understand the search query API capabilities.  

> [[_rhacm-docs_apis_policy_jsonoverview]]

Reviewer: What does this line mean? Seems like it's for policy and not applicable here.

Author: it was treated as an anchor, but its not really helpful so i removed it

> [[_rhacm-docs_apis_policy_jsonoverview]]

Author: ```suggestion
[[_rhacm-docs_apis_searchquery_jsonoverview]]
```

> [[_rhacm-docs_apis_searchquery_jsonoverview]]

Author: ```suggestion
```

== Overview

You can expose the search query API with a route and use the API to resolve search queries. The API is a GraphQL endpoint. You can use any client like curl or Postman.

=== Version information
[%hardbreaks]
_Version_ : 2.9.0

=== URI scheme
[%hardbreaks]
_BasePath_ : /searchapi/graphql
_Schemes_ : HTTPS

> [[_search_query_api_access]]

Author: ```suggestion
```

=== Configure API access

Create a route to access the Search API external from your cluster with the following command:

[source,bash]
----
oc create route passthrough search-api --service=search-search-api -n open-cluster-management
----

*Important:* You must configure your route to secure your environment. See link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/4.14/html-single/networking/index#route-configuration[Route configuration] in the {ocp-short} documentation for more details.

==== Parameters

[options="header", cols=".^2a,.^3a,.^9a,.^4a"]
|===
|Type|Name|Description|Schema
|**Header**|**COOKIE** +
__required__|Authorization: Bearer {ACCESS_TOKEN} ; ACCESS_TOKEN is the user access token.|string
|**Path**|**cluster_name** +

> __required__|Name of the cluster that you want to delete.|string

Reviewer: Remove these 2 lines, not applicable for search.

Author: Remove the Path?

Reviewer: yes, path is always `/searchapi/graphql`, it doesn't accept any parameters.

Reviewer: this is defined above around line 17 as `_BasePath_ : /searchapi/graphql` so no need to duplicate here.

> __required__|Name of the cluster that you want to delete.|string

Author: ```suggestion
```

| string

| SearchInput
| Enter key words to receive a list of resources. When you provide many keywords, the API interprets it as an "AND" operation. 
| String

| limit
| Determine the maximum number of results returned after you enter the query. The default value is `10,000`. A value of `-1` means that the limit is removed.
| Integer
|===

=== Schema example

[source,json]
----
{
  "query": "type SearchResult {count: Intitems: [Map]related: [SearchRelatedResult]} type SearchRelatedResult {kind: String!count: Intitems: [Map]}",
  "variables": {
    "input": [
      {
        "keywords": [],
        "filters": [
          {
            "property": "kind",
            "values": [
              "Deployment"
            ]
          }
        ],
        "limit": 10
      }
    ]
  }
}
----

== Generic schema 

[source,graphql]
----
type Query {
  search(input: [SearchInput]): [SearchResult]
  searchComplete(property: String!, query: SearchInput, limit: Int): [String]
  searchSchema: Map
  messages: [Message]
}
----

== Supported queries

Continue reading to see the query types that are supported in JSON format.

=== Search for deployments

Query:

[source,graphql]
----

> query mySearch($input: [SearchInput]) {
>     searchResult: search(input: $input) {
>     		items
>         }
> }

Reviewer: Small update to simplify this example. Remove searchResult:
```suggestion
query mySearch($input: [SearchInput]) {
    search(input: $input) {
    		items
        }
}
```

----

Variables:

[source,graphql]
----
{"input":[
    {
        "keywords":[],
        "filters":[
            {"property":"kind","values":["Deployment"]}],
        "limit":10
    }
]}
----

=== Search for pods

Query:

[source,graphql]
----

> query mySearch($input: [SearchInput]) {
>     searchResult: search(input: $input) {
>     		items
>         }
> }

Reviewer: Small update to simplify this example. Remove `searchResult:`

```suggestion
query mySearch($input: [SearchInput]) {
    search(input: $input) {
    		items
        }
}
```
